[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Those of you just coming
in, thank you for joining us.
We're just getting started.
So OK, any questions?
So what I want to do--
again, I'm acknowledging some
of you were with me Friday,
some were not.
The whole theme for
what I'm doing here
is about the human story.
Scott Turow, American
author-- he says this.
So you know, I don't
know if he knows that I'm
using his words the way I am.
But Scott, if you're
watching, thank
you, my brother, Scott Turow.
He says it so beautifully.
He says, "who are
we but the stories
we tell ourselves about
ourselves and believe?"
That is so powerful because
our story is more than just
this philosophical concept.
It's something you toss
around the dinner table.
Our story is everything.
Our story is what
determines the way
that we think about
ourselves, about the way we
solve our problems, choose our
relationships, heal our bodies.
You go to the ballot box.
Whoever you elect to
represent you and create
the policies and
the laws that govern
our communities
and our lives, it's
all based on the way we've
been taught to think.
It's our story.
So our story is important.
And you and I have--
there's a service
animal in there.
You and I, we are
steeped in a story
that's based on false science.
So I want to just touch on
that a little bit right now.
What science says,
our story is defined
by what are called four
perennial questions, the four
great questions of life.
Let me ask you--
I didn't even know
this was here.
Wow.
Well, this post is here.
I mean, the speaker.
So I didn't-- there's
a whole screen.
And my laser works.
My laser doesn't work
on the flat screens.
OK, cool.
I should come here
more often, right?
I knew that was there.
I guess I didn't really think
about that one being there.
Isn't that interesting?
If I ask you what are
the perennial questions,
what are the big questions
that humankind is always
asked about themselves--
>> Who am I?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Where do we-- oh,
you guys are right on.
These are the
perennial questions.
Who are we?
See how psychic you are?
See how this thing works?
Where do we come from?
There it is right there.
>> Why are we here?
And--
>> Where are we going?
>> Well, now that we are here,
how do we make things better
for where we're going?
Now, I'm a scientist.
You all know that.
I've worked-- a
degreed geologist.
I do have a strong background
in life sciences, which
has given me the ability
to talk about what I'm
going to talk about--
molecular biology,
invertebrate and vertebrate
paleontology, and math physics,
computer science, all those
things that work together
to help me.
So that screen always says Gaia.
And that-- OK, now I've got it.
OK, I've got it now.
So scientists, when they want
to answer these questions,
there's two
different approaches.
Some scientists-- this
one scientific approach
says we have to solve
all of these problems.
We have to figure out where did
we come from, why are we here,
how do we make life better.
And once we do that, then it's
going to tell us who we are.
That's one scientific approach.
Well, if you follow
that approach,
that could take how long?
Like, a few more
centuries maybe.
I don't know.
There's another
approach that says
if we explore our potential,
if we embrace who we are
and bring the extraordinary
potential that we have
into our lives, that
is going to lead us
to the answers of
the big questions.
Once we fully
embrace what it means
to be a human
walking this earth,
it's going to tell us
where we come from.
It's going to tell
us why we're here.
And it's going to tell
us exactly what we
need to do to make life better.
Does that make sense?
Can you see different
ways of thinking?
So there's a lot of
resistance doing this.
I-- they're both good.
I prefer this.
We are such-- you, you and I. We
are such extraordinary beings.
And the mainstream media
and main pop science,
like all pop science has a
way of denigrating humans,
making us feel like we're
the mistake on the planet,
like we are the scourge of the
Earth and that humans are--
you know where it's going.
You see it all the time.
Rarely are we told how
precious our lives are
and how rare it
is for a life form
to be able to do what you do, to
self-regulate your own biology,
to heal your own biology,
to reverse the conditions
that destroy your life into
conditions that give you life
very consciously on demand.
We're the only form of
life that can sit down
and say, in this moment,
that's what I'm going to do.
Other forms of life
may do it by instinct.
We do it consciously on demand.
No other form of
life can do that.
So I prefer to explore who
we are and where we're going.
Now, as a scientist, what
I can tell you is this.
The new science is telling us
in these very obscure, highly
technical publications
that very few people get
to see that you are absolutely
not what you'd been told.
And you are absolutely more
than you probably have even
allowed yourself to imagine.
There is a new philosophy
that is emerging.
And it's a very cool philosophy
that says our creations,
the things we create, our
consciousness informing itself
of itself.
Now think about what that means.
We think when we
write books, when we--
I'm a musician when
I'm not doing this.
We're creating music.
You go to Hollywood
and you see the movies.
We think those are diversions.
What if they're not diversions?
What if they are consciousness,
the way that consciousness
communicates with itself?
Because all of those creations
are there because consciousness
put them there.
And if this is the
way-- one of the ways
that consciousness
is informing us,
look at what we're drawn to.
Look at the things-- what
are the most popular themes
that we see out there?
And you-- although
the films, the movie--
I'm going to take
Hollywood for example.
Many different films, but
there are common themes.
Remember when "The Matrix" came
out and then all of a sudden
after "The Matrix," there's
a movie about the inception.
You remember
"Inception" about dreams
within dreams within dreams.
And "Avatar" came out telling
us about our relationship
to the earth.
And "The Matrix" was
about our relationship
to a field of energy
that we can't see,
but it influences
our everyday lives.
What are those films telling us?
So right now, you tell
me what are the films
that our young people are being
drawn to today, right now?
>> Superheroes.
>> Superheroes that have powers
within them that we identify
with in one form or another.
The power between--
to defeat evil,
for example, or powers to bring
forward superhuman abilities,
which many of them
which you already have.
You have the ability for
super memory, super cognition.
You have the ability
for remote viewing.
You have the ability to
self-heal, to self-regulate
your biology and to apply
that in your everyday life.
So maybe this
consciousness, this
is the way consciousness is
reminding us of these things.
So when we talk about
these, new discoveries
are telling us who we are.
And they're revealing
a new story.
This is a new human story.
So first discovery-- I talked
about this the other day,
but I have to say this.
I have to do this for people
that weren't with me so that it
makes sense.
You and I are steeped in this
story that began about 150
year-- over 150 years ago.
1859, Charles Darwin
proposed a theory.
He called it the theory of
evolution by natural selection.
And he wasn't alone.
He had-- Alfred Wallace
worked with him.
And other people were working.
His name got attached
to the proposal.
And it was interesting
because Darwin
himself said he never expected
this theory to last very long.
He said this is a stepping stone
to get us away from religion
as a way to help us to
understand who we are.
And when the new
discoveries come along,
my theory will fall.
It will fail.
It has to.
And he said--
I researched.
I actually have one
of his manuscripts.
His daughter-- no, his
great-great granddaughter--
his great-great
granddaughter was
in one of my programs in London.
You never know who's
going to show up
in your London programs.
She came up, and it's good
she came up after the program
and not before.
She came up after the program.
And she really thanked
me for being honest
about what her great--
I guess great-great grandfather
had done because he was fine
if his theory fell.
It's the modern
academia that will not
allow his theory to fall
because they're very invested
in the implications.
And that's what I want
to talk to you about.
If you-- what
Darwin said is we're
the product of random processes.
Things just magically
happened sort of.
They called it lucky
biology, a fluke
of biology, random mutations.
And this is where
it gets dangerous.
He said it was because
competition and conflict were
so successful that we have
prevailed over other species.
And that thinking suggests
if it worked in the past,
we should keep doing it.
So I have young people in my--
we do millennial programs.
And we have young
people that say,
you know Gregg, that's
sweet, really sweet.
And they say, but that
was 150 years ago.
So what?
We're in the 21st century.
We've got the internet.
Where high tech.
So what?
Who cares about this?
And it's a really good question.
And the answer surprises them.
The foundation of the society
that you and I live in right
now was laid down
when this theory was
being embraced wholeheartedly.
The idea of competition in
the economy, competition,
competitive economics
began right here.
The idea of competition as in
warfare, as a science, the idea
of competition in--
as the foundation of our society
and conflict and scarcity--
the corporate model was
based upon these ideas
where I've got something
and there's not much of it
and you want it, and
I'm going to make
you pay big time for it.
That all comes from this.
So this idea, although
it's an old idea,
it's still influencing
our lives today.
So evolution-- I want
to be very, very clear.
I'm a geologist.
I see in the fossil
record evolution is
a fact for many forms of life.
It breaks down when
it comes to humans.
And the reason it breaks down
is what I want to show you today
because it's a mind blower.
And if you were
with me on Friday,
I'm going to show you things
you didn't see on Friday.
But what I want to say is
evolution is not our story.
And when you begin
to let that idea go,
the way we solve
our problems begins
to look very differently.
Bruce Lipton and I were
invited to speak at the UN
a couple of years ago.
And they asked us about what
we're talking about now.
They asked me about
cycles of time.
And I shared with them that the
fundamental nature of nature,
the fundamental law is actually
based on cooperation, not
competition.
And they said, well, how
come we've never heard this?
It's rock-solid science.
It's in the
peer-reviewed science.
The best science
of the modern world
now tells us that nature,
the nature all around us,
the fundamental rule is
cooperation, not competition.
So if we want to work
in harmony with nature,
I think it behooves us
to follow those models.
So evolution-- this
isn't our story.
And the reason we know this
is because of new DNA science.
And this is-- this
stuff is mind-blowing.
And they're-- like every week--
there's a little journal called
"Science."
It comes out every week
to update the world
on the scientific
discoveries that
are so numerous they can't wait
until the end of the month.
So every week, they're
updating on what's going on.
The science of the DNA--
we are now able to extract--
now just think about
what I'm saying.
We're able to
extract the DNA out
of the fossils of
ancient forms of life.
Some of them are supposed
to be our ancestors.
So it looks like a rock.
But it is petrified DNA
essentially is what it is.
And we're able to extract
that DNA from the bone marrow,
for example.
And when you do that, now you
can compare that ancient DNA
to what we have today.
And now you can--
don't have to guess.
You don't have to have a theory.
You can say we descended from
these forms of life or we
didn't.
And guess what.
We didn't descend
from Neanderthal.
from Australopithecus.
We didn't descend from Lucy.
That's not-- we shared
the Earth with them.
And we may have
common ancestors.
I'm not arguing with that.
But something happened.
And this is what
it's telling us.
There's some of the--
I wanted you to see it.
You know, people sometimes
ask me what's it look like.
That is actually the fossilized
DNA in the bone marrow.
So you can actually
see what it looks like.
What the DNA is telling us--
I just shared what it's
telling us that we're not.
We're not the
descendants those beings.
Here's what we are.
What we are is it
says that we humans--
we are called anatomically
modern humans.
We showed up on
Earth mysteriously.
And we don't know
where we came from.
And it happened
200,000 years ago.
Scientists agree with that.
If you Google when
do modern humans
appear, no problem,
200,000 years.
The problem is
how did it happen.
How did it happen?
When they take that DNA and
they compare it to ours today,
they've actually been
able to rebuild--
this is an anatomically modern
human skull, an ancient one.
This is a modern one.
And when they do the
forensics and they rebuild,
this is what our
ancestors looked like.
They-- I mean, for all intents--
I probably saw some of these
guys at the kiosk out here.
I mean, really, they don't
look that different, do they?
And they don't
look much different
than humans look today, I
mean, pretty much, right?
OK, the only reason
I put Brad Pitt there
is because we both come
from the same state.
We're both born in Missouri.
So I'll be very
fair and I'll say--
[LAUGHTER]
So we don't look that
much different, right?
>> He won an Oscar, though.
>> Oh, he won an Oscar?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yay Brad, my brother,
you won the Oscar.
All right.
For what?
For what movie?
>> "Once Upon a Time."
>> Once upon-- yeah.
I'm still-- it's a
three-hour movie.
I'm still watching it.
I started it on a plane trip.
And I didn't get to
the end of the trip
before the movie was over.
So we haven't changed.
And this is the point.
This is not Darwin's
idea of evolution.
So a couple of principles I
want to talk to you about.
One of them says,
and Alfred Wallace
is the one that stated
this, said that nature never
over-endows.
Nature never gives
us more than we need.
What that means is that
a life form will only
develop certain capacities
and certain characteristics
when they need them to survive.
The problem is we showed up
on earth 200,000 years ago.
Everything we have right
now was already in place.
We had more than we needed light
years ahead of when we need it.
And that violates
Darwin's idea of--
Darwin's idea of evolution.
Either-- sometimes he
talks about evolution
as slow, gradual changes
over long periods of time,
or some of you know about
punctuated evolution.
I don't want to get into
that, but neither one of those
fit what has happened.
So you are an--
aren't you glad to know
you're over-endowed?
I like to tell people that.
I'm an over-endowed speaker.
So scientists know this.
They know this.
Modern humans appeared
suddenly 200,000 years ago.
And they had all the
capacity, all the capabilities
that we have right now.
Here's the kicker.
We haven't changed.
We have not changed
in 200,000 years.
And the DNA is telling us that.
That is a mind blower because
it discounts all of the things
that we've been taught,
although the other ideas
are being taught as fact.
If you've got kids
in school, they're
still being taught they're the
product of a random mutation,
an accident in biology.
And let me tell you
why that's important.
Because it denigrates life.
And it makes it very easy
to take another human life
if you believe it's the
product of an accident.
And you see this
with young people
because there appears to
be no sense and no purpose.
Now, the problem has always been
if it's not random mutations,
then it must be religion.
And religion comes in.
And I'm not saying that at all.
I don't think religion has
to come into this at all.
But we know that we are not the
product of a random process.
How do we know that?
This is where the science--
again, science-- we ask
science to tell us who we are.
It's telling us.
And all the scientists
don't like the answers.
So how did this happen?
This is the kicker.
Discovery number two, we can
now take the DNA that we have
and work backward
to find out what
had to happen to give
us our capabilities.
So if you were with me Friday,
I showed you one example.
I'm going to show it again.
But I'm going to show you
one that we didn't see,
human chromosome number 7.
So as a musician, I
mentioned-- how many
musicians are in the room?
You're a musician.
Laurie's a backup singer.
How many musicians?
OK, have you ever wondered
if we share 98% of our DNA
with chimpanzees--
I mean, that's almost
the whole genome--
how come chimpanzees can't sing?
And you've never heard a
chimpanzee sing Led Zeppelin's
"Stairway to Heaven."
you won't hear it.
And you never will.
And that was-- here.
That was my whole--
if we did, it would
look like this.
I'm waiting for this.
No, but I mean, it's--
we laugh about it.
But seriously, why do you think
that that cannot happen if we
are so similar in DNA?
The answer to the question
is part of the mind blower
right here.
Human chromosome number 7.
We all have one of these.
It's responsible
for complex speech.
It's what gives us the ability--
if my chromosome 7 wasn't
arranged like it is, I couldn't
be having this conversation
with you right now.
I could be sharing with you.
Speech, complex
language, and music--
now I wanted you
to look at this.
And if you're taking notes,
it's a very specific gene.
I don't want to get technical,
but it's called the FOX P2.
It is one gene on
the FOX P2 gene
that is on chromosome number 7.
It's one of about--
I know something like
over 1,300 different genes
on that chromosome.
So look at what happened.
And this is from the
very prestigious journal,
peer-reviewed journal.
It is called "Nature."
And some of you know
what "Nature" is.
It's a publicly available
peer-reviewed journal, 2002.
The answer to why the chimpanzee
can't sing "Stairway to Heaven"
is right here.
This is-- it looks a little
complex, but it's not.
These are primates.
And we are primates.
The primates are going back
over 75 million years, primates.
So here are the
rhesus, orangutan.
Here is gorillas.
Here's humans.
75 million years, this FOX
P2 gene was very stable.
No changes.
75 million years.
All of a sudden, right there,
right there, humans came along.
And all of a sudden,
there was this little mm,
this little 2D--
you all know about DNA letters--
CT, AG, GACT.
There were two letters
that were switched
in just the right way in the FOX
P2 gene in chromosome number 7.
And when that happened, it
linked our tongue and our jaw,
the muscles in our
throat, and our brain
together so the
signals from our brain
could allow us to communicate.
Look at when it happened.
Now, you could say
maybe this is a fluke.
And I would say, yeah, you
know, maybe it's unusual.
But could it happen?
Maybe.
It happened exactly
200,000 years ago.
BP is before present.
Happened exactly 200,000
years ago when we appeared.
And you think, well, what are
the chances of that happening?
Discovery number three--
and some of you saw this--
I'm going to elaborate
on this a little bit--
human chromosome number 2.
If it was only one mutation
that happened 200,000 years ago,
I'd say maybe it's a fluke.
It's not.
There are a series of mutations.
And they are so bizarre.
And the scientists are telling
us they cannot happen through
natural processes.
Natural processes cannot do
what you're about to see here.
Human chromosome number 2.
It is responsible for most of
what you call the neocortex.
I'll show you what that is.
About 76%-- if you're taking
notes, it's gene TBR1.
There are I think 1,280
genes in chromosome number 2.
And one of those-- only one--
I'm only talking about
one of the genes.
There are another 1,200
and, I don't know,
89 or whatever it
is, is responsible
for our enlarged brain.
And because of that,
we have this capacity
for emotion and
sympathy and empathy
that give us our uniqueness.
This is our humanness.
This is what makes us different
from all other forms of life
and the ability to
self-regulate our biology.
Now, I didn't go into
this the other day.
And I'm doing it now, a
little bit more detail.
This-- everything you
see in the green right
there, that is
what is responsible
or what chromosome 2
is responsible for.
Here is the little lizard brain.
You hear a lot about
the lizard brain.
That's responsible for
basic functions, sex,
reproductive drive,
territoriality, hunger, thirst,
things like that.
Here's the mammal brain.
All the good stuff like attack,
anger, anxiety, fear, hate,
jealousy, all those kinds
of things right here
and then everything--
look at this.
This is the-- there's
six layers, the neocortex
right here.
And that's going to be
important because I'm
someone to show you
some neocortex stuff,
some neocortexian stuff.
I've never used
that word before.
That's a pretty cool word.
Neocortexian.
All right.
So and it's coming
from right there.
Now, some of these
discoveries are so new--
this one was only in--
it's less than two years old.
It was only made in '18.
I think I'm going to
be able to do this.
On the audio, would you
please bring down the audio
on-- for the computer, please?
You can actually bring
it down for the computer
and the laptop.
Thank you.
Discovery, 2018.
So I know many of
you have seen scans--
CTs, MRIs, brain scans.
They're very dull,
flat, two-dimensional.
They usually look like this.
There is the technology has
now been driven to develop--
I'll just explain what happened.
This is interesting.
The brain of a mouse is so
similar in structure, not
the way it works, but
structure to a human brain
that the pharmaceutical
companies will often
test the pharmaceuticals
on the mouse.
And if it works on
the mouse, they'll
say, hey, try it on Joe.
It's good enough for the mouse.
It's got to be good
enough for Joe.
And nine times out
of 10, that works.
They have a class
of pharmaceuticals
they tested on the mice.
Everything was cool.
They tested on the humans
and it didn't work.
And they said, why?
What could be different about
the human brain from the mouse
brain that is preventing
these-- this class of drugs
from working?
Well, this scan didn't
tell them the answer.
So Japanese scientists
developed a new scan.
And it is now--
I want to show you this.
This is very cool.
This-- and I want to be very
clear about what you're seeing.
We typically scan the tissue.
This is not the tissue.
This is the path of
information that the tissue--
that flows through the tissue.
And I'm going to set
this into motion.
And I want you to
see what's happening
is the information is coming up
through the spinal cord largely
from the heart.
And as the information flows,
that's-- it's not the tissue.
This is the path that the
information flows through.
It is actually-- you've
heard of the genome.
This is called the connectome.
The connectome.
So I'm going to go ahead
and set this into motion.
And watch what happens.
As the information comes
up from the spinal cord,
it will be color coded.
There you can see it's starting
at the bottom right there.
Color-- it's happening
on the inside.
And then it comes
to the outside.
It'll be color coded
as it begins to move
through the human brain.
Isn't that awesome?
It's a very different way
of thinking of the brain.
Now once again, it's not tissue.
You're looking at the path
that the information is moving
through within the tissue.
And this showed the--
reason I'm sharing
this with you--
this showed the
scientist what it
was about us that made
the pharmaceuticals not
work for us, but did
work for the mice.
And this-- so first of
all, isn't that cool?
Any questions?
It make sense what
you're looking at here?
All right, so let me
show you what happened.
That was August '18, the
prestigious journal "Nature."
And the volume was
called Neuroscience.
I know you all have a
hardbound copy on your bed
stand for light bedtime
reading just like I do.
I'm so exciting to be
in bed with at night.
I read my neuroscience
journal and have sweet dreams.
Pardon me?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, yeah.
You can-- yeah, it's all online.
So if anybody-- did
you get your picture?
Get your photograph?
This is photo friendly.
So here's what they found.
Now this is a mind
blower because we
tend to think that we understand
the human body pretty well.
To find discoveries
of this magnitude
so late in the game surprises
scientists, medical doctors.
This still hasn't even been
taught in the medical schools
yet.
They found a new
class of neurons.
I say new.
They've always been there.
We just didn't recognize them.
It's a new class of neurons.
If you've ever seen a neuron,
they're pretty simple.
Look at this one.
It is a very complex neuron.
This is actually a scan
of what the neuron looks
like right here.
So this is the actual--
this is the neuron.
The new neuron on
top, it's connected
to a typical neuron that's
called a pyramidal neuron right
here on the bottom.
That's a typical neuron.
So you can see the difference.
And it is actually
called the rose--
there it is right there.
Look how complex it is.
It is the Rosehip neuron
because it looks like this.
It looks like a rosehip berry.
And there's-- it's a
plant called a rosehip.
So what's the big
deal about this?
Just ask me.
Somebody ask me, what's the
big deal about the neuron?
>> What's the big
deal about the neuron?
>> I'm so happy that you
asked me that question
because I've got an answer.
So here's what this neuron does.
Number one, it's called
an inhibitory neuron
that regulates information
in the neocortex.
OK, so this is in the neocortex.
It regulates the
flow of information
to facilitate our
state of consciousness.
This neuron is what
allows us to reach
higher states of consciousness
when we understand
how to access this neuron.
And look at this.
It's only in the
human brain, only
in the neocortex because of what
happened in human chromosome 2.
This is just one example.
You begin to see how
important chromosome 2 is--
empathy, sympathy,
compassion, self-regulation.
It's got these Rosehip
neurons that help
us to regulate consciousness.
Chromosome 2 is a big deal.
Where in the world
did it come from?
And that's the question.
Where did this come-- and
how come other forms of life
don't have it?
Will they have it?
Is this the product
of random mutations?
Is this the product of an--
this just happened?
And the answer is
absolutely not.
Where did it come from?
I'm going to show you the paper.
It's a very complex paper.
It is called-- it's from
the proceedings of National
Academy of Sciences.
These are the--
their annual meetings
or semiannual meetings.
They meet frequently.
And they have journals
about the discoveries.
So this is from the
proceeding of National Academy
of Sciences.
The volume was called Genetics.
It's very complex.
And I'm going to show you--
I mentioned this the
other day, but I just
have to say it again.
Scientists and engineers,
really interesting people.
I've worked with them all my--
I'm one of them.
I am so interesting.
[LAUGHTER]
No, they're-- typically
they do not have a platform.
I'm the exception
because I've created
the platform for myself.
Many of them do not.
They have amazing discoveries
and nobody to tell it to.
That's why you're not
getting the straight scoop
on climate change.
The real climate scientists
are not public speakers.
And nobody's carrying
their message
because it's been hijacked
by corporations, by politics,
by religions, by
special interests.
If you go visit National Center
for Atmospheric Research, NCAR,
up in Boulder, Colorado,
they're in the lobby.
And they'll tell you what's
going on with climate change.
But they said, who
do we tell it to?
They write the papers.
And they end up in
some obscure journal.
So this particular paper, when
a scientist writes a paper
and they make a
discovery and they
want to claim all that credit,
you and I both know they say,
look what I found.
And they'll put their
name and maybe they
won't have a lot of assistance.
Look what I found.
And when they find something and
they know it's-- they're going
to take a hit for, when it's
going to be controversial,
they will usually put--
they'll study it with a lot
of other people, say, Laurie,
would you put your
name on this paper?
This is Laurie, my office
manager of 23 years.
And I think some of you know--
I introduced you today--
we rarely get to
see one another,
which she says is why we're
still working together
after 23 years.
And she lives in the
state of Florida.
So we are converging
here in California.
And that's-- thank you, Laurie.
So yeah.
[APPLAUSE]
Actually you're not my
office manager anymore.
She is no longer
my office manager.
She's the executive director
of Wisdom Traditions Global,
cosmic.
So when a scientist
makes a discovery
that they think they
might take a hit for,
they like to surround themselves
and buffer themselves.
And they will say,
look what we found.
With that in mind, national--
Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, where
did human chromosome come--
2 come from?
"We conclude that human
chromosome 2 is the relic
of an ancient DNA fusion"--
that is a big deal in
the world of science--
"of two ancestral chromosomes."
And it goes on from there.
And I'm going to take this
beyond where we went when
I was with you at the keynote.
But what this is saying is that
there are two chromosomes that
were preexisting.
And they were fused
in a very precise way.
So let me just give
you an example.
Let's do a world example.
If you had two companies,
two corporations that
were fully intact, very
successful on their own,
and each one of them had their
own human resources department
and each had their own
shipping department,
each has their own
billing department.
And all of a sudden
these two companies
in a very unlikely
way merge together
in a way that
could never happen.
For example, what if
Amazon and Whole Foods?
That would never happen
in a million years.
It's so weird.
But if it ever did happen--
I couldn't believe it
when that happened.
Everything's going be
Amazon before it's over.
You know that, right?
OK, when Amazon and
Whole Foods merged,
this is exactly what happened.
They each had their
own human resources.
They had their own shipping.
They had their own
data management.
When they merged
together, you tell me what
happens to those departments.
Some of them.
Some of them may
have common interest.
Some may actually do thing--
Amazon might do things
differently than Whole Foods.
Now if you've got a billing
department from Amazon
that conflicts with the billing
department from Whole Foods
and you merge those together,
something's got to give, right?
People are going
to lose their jobs.
They're going to merge.
Functions are going to be added.
Functions are going
to be taken away.
And that's the same with all
those departments, right?
Are you with me on that?
It's exactly what happened here.
When these two
chromosomes were merged,
they were fully intact,
fully functional.
When they merged, they
had functions that
actually denigrated the other--
the merging of the two.
And so it's not enough
that they get fused.
I mean, that's a big deal.
But look at this.
After they fused, there were
modifications that happened.
Genes were added.
Genes were taken away.
Genes were modified to stabilize
and optimize that fusion.
And it did not happen
slowly, gradually,
over a long period of time.
It happened-- you just take a
wild, psychic, Conscious Life
Expo LA intuitive guess.
When would you imagine?
>> 200,000 years.
>> Exactly 200,000
years ago, chromosome 7,
200,000 years ago.
Humans emerged
This is not an
evolutionary process.
Now, I don't know-- as a
scientist, I can speculate.
And I'll show you where
we're going with this.
This is the whole point.
We don't know what happened
because our young people--
right now in
school, young people
are ready to dedicate their
whole lives to solving
the mysteries of our origins.
And they're being forced to
take all of their discoveries
and fit them into a preexisting
model called evolution
rather than allowing
the discoveries to lead
to whatever story they tell.
Can you see that difference?
It's a huge difference between--
it's like putting a
square peg in round hole.
If you pound hard enough,
it eventually will fit.
And it's never a good fit.
And this is what they're doing.
So the point is we don't
know where we came from.
Now you and I may
sense intuitively.
And I'm going to show you our
indigenous ancestors, what
they tell us.
But the science has
yet to arrive there.
But these-- this is
what they're looking at.
So does this make
sense right now?
First of all, and I'm going to
move really quickly after this.
I just wanted to
lay that foundation.
Quick--
>> I'm just super curious if
there was anything like planet
that was going on
200,000 years ago.
>> On the planet--
planetarily, there were--
there was climate change
that was going on.
As a geologist-- what I can
tell you as a geologist,
200,000 years ago
isn't really that long.
It's not that long ago.
It's relatively recently.
The planet had been
here cooking away
for a long time when
we showed up this time.
There's evidence
that we've probably
been here long before this.
And that's a whole different
Conscious Life Expo workshop.
Yes.
>> I noticed that
it said [INAUDIBLE]
>> So the question is--
the question is they
were primate chromosomes.
So it's like the most advanced
DNA available 200,000 years ago
was selected and modified
to become something
more than it was naturally.
I'll just tell you where
this gets really, really
interesting.
I'm involved-- I'm also--
I'm not a degreed archaeologist.
I'm a-- did I mention
I'm a geologist?
Did I tell you that?
I just have to say that every
time I get the opportunity.
So I'm a geologist
invited to consult
on archaeological projects.
Some of the
archaeological projects
are dealing with
ancestral evidence
of cosmic relationships,
pictoral evidence, and now
skeletal evidence
with DNA components.
When those skeletal-- that
skeletal evidence is analyzed,
something very-- a lot
of this is coming out
of Mesoamerica, so the
American Desert Southwest all
the way down, Mexico down
into Latin America, down
into Northern South
America in the Andes.
When the skeletal remains--
now we can pull the DNA out
of that skeletal remains.
They're not fossilized.
They're not that old.
What they're finding
is this-- it's
very interesting-- is that the
female component of the DNA
is human, haplogroup A,
haplogroup B, Mesoamerican,
just what you'd expect.
The male components
cannot be identified.
There is no equivalent in the
National Institutes of Health
database for any known
past or present male
DNA that matches the DNA that's
coming from those skeletons.
The skeletal structure is
not typical human skeletal
structure.
The skulls are actually
thinner than ours,
but structurally
stronger because they
are of a crystalline-- there
is a crystalline matrix that's
different than human crystalline
matrix in the skulls.
Scientists know that.
And they say that these
are one-off mutations.
They say it was some
disease, some dis--
because they have to because
they have no mechanism
to describe that.
So as a scientist,
what I like to do
is share with you what
I can say is fact.
And I'm happy to speculate.
But this is what
we know right now.
What we know is the
DNA is not the product
of evolutionary processes.
This paper actually
says it, by the way.
It says this is not the product
of something that would happen
from an evolutionary process.
Here it is right there.
Can you see that little
pinch point right there?
That is where one fully
intact chromosome is now
fused kind of in a very
specific way onto the other one.
I showed-- if you
were with me Friday,
I showed you the uniqueness.
I'm not going to go into that.
If you don't like that,
I made that little movie
right here because I'm
a very visual person.
So here is one chromosome.
There's another.
Genes were added.
Genes were taken away.
They were fused and modified,
stabilized to give us
human chromosome number 2.
What scientists say is that
the timing, the fact that this
happened 200,000 years ago,
number one, the precision
with which it happened given the
way that these genes were added
and taken away, and
the result. The result
is empathy,
sympathy, compassion.
It's the neurons
and the neocortex
all suggest something
beyond evolution.
This has now led to what's--
I love this--
forbidden territory.
And the forbidden territory--
this is where the
scientific community's
hit a wall because the
evidence has brought them
to this point where
it looks like there
is an intentionality
underlying what happened.
And science has
no way to account
for that intentionality.
For me, this is where our
story begins because if this
was done intentionally,
who or whatever
did that had a purpose.
And that purpose is what we're
going to explore here today.
What extraordinary
potentials were given to us
200,000 years ago that we're
either not using or only
beginning to understand?
Now just in case you're
wondering, I like this.
Scientists tell us the odds--
when the odds of
something occurring
are one in 10 to the
400th-- so that's
10 with 400 zeros after it.
You've got a lottery
ticket, and the odds
of that being a good ticket
are 1 in 10 to the 400,
they say it is considered
to be impossible, all right?
The odds of the
DNA doing what it
is that we're looking at right
now are one in 10 to the 600th.
I guess I want to show you
what that looks like just
in case you're curious.
So if one in 10 to the
400th is impossible,
it's more than impossible
that this is a fluke of nature
that just happened to occur.
So if it's not a fluke,
then the question
is who or what is responsible?
And it depends on who you
ask because everybody's
got an answer.
The ancient Sumerians--
they've got a wonderful story
if you ever read
Zecharia Sitchin's work.
I toured with him in the '90s.
The "Earth Chronicles" series
is all about his translation
of the cuneiform texts.
Aboriginals were just
down there not long ago.
Look, their creation
story describes
what happened beautifully.
The Hopi and Navajo are right
in their own backyard here.
They've got their story.
The Hindus have their story.
The Egyptians have their story.
I love the Christian
story because they
got such great
pictures right there.
There it is.
These are some of the artifacts
that are being discovered.
I don't know if you can
see from here or not,
so I'm going to point
it out what's happening.
Here is a being right here.
I'm pointing with my pointer.
The being is holding an
infant above his or her head
right there.
And they're having some
relationship with whatever
you think that is right there.
And we are finding
this isn't a one off.
Right now, there
are almost 4,000
of these artifacts
that have been found.
That'd be pretty
hard to hoax 4,000.
And they're also
being found in situ.
So they're in the earth.
They're not laying them--
pardon me?
>> Who did this?
>> Yeah [INAUDIBLE] original?
>> Well, we don't know.
We don't know because these are
all predating the cultures that
were supposed to exist.
There's the Olmec and
the Toltec and the Maya
and the Inca and the Aztec.
And these pre-date all of those.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah.
>> Sure.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Sure, absolutely.
Yeah.
The question is if doing this
can actually affect the-- reset
the epigenetic clock and--
>> But in not such a way that
it will affect [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah, it's all-- and that's
where we're going to go with
this.
You're going to see this.
If you watch TV, History
Channel, they've got their--
everybody's got a story
about what happened.
You and I are
steeped in this story
right here that even the
scientists don't believe.
Look at the gap they put between
our nearest ancestor and us.
They know there's
something missing.
That's right out of the
Smithsonian Institute.
And now the DNA is
telling us a new story.
These are all stories.
Everybody's got a
story of what happened.
So my invitation-- I wrote a
book called "Human by Design."
Was the invitation
for scientists
to leave behind the burden
of the shackles that
have kept them from
following the evidence?
And let's follow the evidence
to the story, whatever
that story is that it tells.
And there's a whole story
about where that has led me
and who's supporting
that and who's not.
But where I want
to do today now--
I've just laid-- this is
a foundation for where
we're going.
Something happened to
us 200,000 years ago.
And it gives us everything
we need not just
survive, but to transcend,
become better people,
and perhaps for the
first time know what
it means to be fully human.
And that's what I want us to do.
The common denominator to all
of those traditions, Egyptian
and Christian and everyone--
Sumerian-- every
one of them says
there has been an
intervention of some kind.
And as a scientist, I
have to support that.
There has to have been
some kind of intervention
in our genetic history that
has given us what we are today.
And I think we owe it
to ourselves to do this.
How do we awaken whatever
that potential is?
And that's where I want to go.
That's what we're going to
do for the rest of our day.
You good?
You good with what we just did?
It was fast.
But I wanted you to have
that because it leads
right to discovery number four.
This-- I'm sorry, question.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Blood type?
There is a correlation.
But it's not the correlation
you would probably expect.
And it doesn't perhaps hold the
meaning that we might think.
So yeah, it's more than I can do
justice to in this conversation
right now because I
had the same question.
I said, you know,
would blood type--
>> Rare blood types
and [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah, my question is what was
the blood type of the skeletons
that were found?
And they haven't--
we don't know that.
This discovery is another
one of the discoveries
that came relatively late.
I mean, 1991.
We've been doing about 10,000
heart transplants a year
successfully.
We, I mean society, the world.
And it started back in the '60s.
Remember Christiaan
Barnard and DeBakey and--
and the reason they're
successful, scientists say,
is because we know
everything there is
to know about the human heart.
So to have this
discovery come along so--
I mean, '91.
That wasn't that long ago.
To have this come
along so recently--
1991, scientists--
this was published
in the journal Neurocardiology,
Oxford University Press.
Discovery was '91.
It was published in '94.
They wait until '94
to even publish it,
was that the heart has about
40,000 specialized cells that
are like brain cells.
But they're not in the brain.
They're in the human heart.
The heart has its own brain.
It's called the little
brain in the heart.
And those nervous
cells, those neurons,
they actually
learn independently
of the cranial brain.
They remember.
They feel.
They sense.
And right there-- I mean,
think about what this means.
Every one of us, every one of
us has had trauma in our lives.
And sometimes we
resolve that trauma.
And sometimes we don't.
And when you go to a
therapist or a counselor
and you need some
help and they ask
you to talk about your trauma--
maybe it was a betrayal or a
loss, the loss of a parent,
of a loved one--
and you leave and you say, OK,
well that helped a little bit.
But there's something
that's not resolved--
this may help to understand
why because unless you are
addressing the
neurons in the heart,
there's an entire neural
network in the heart that rarely
is addressed.
They're addressing what's
happening in the brain
because that's the training.
So neurons in the heart--
they think, they learn,
they feel, they
remember independently
of the human brain.
All right, so look at
what's happening here.
'91, scientists discovered
these specialized cells
in the human heart.
And they're saying,
OK, they're there.
What does it mean?
What do we do with these cells?
What is that all about?
Well now we know that we
are the only form of life
that can do this.
We have two organs-- the
heart and the brain--
and I'm-- you know,
as an engineer,
my engineer friends have always
said forget about the heart.
That's Woo-Woo stuff.
It's all about the brain.
And my artist, musician friends
say forget about the brain.
That's left brain stuff.
I don't even have a checkbook.
I can't even drive a car.
I don't even have
a driver's license.
Just let me create.
It's all about the heart.
It's incomplete.
Here's the deal.
They work together
as a partnership.
The heart-- for you to
become fully enabled, fully
capacitated human is
to embrace the power
to harmonize the
heart and the brain,
to become more than
either one of those organs
can offer individually.
And you're the only form
of life that can do it.
And you can only do
it because of what
happened in human chromosome
2 200,000 years ago.
Who or whatever gave
us this capacity
gave us the godlike
capacity-- and I
say that because
it is attributed
to the gods in
the ancient texts.
And other worlds
were able to do what
you can do with your
heart and your brain
when you put your heart into it.
And that's what we're
going to do right now.
Two organs can become
one potent system.
It's called heart-brain
harmony in lay terms,
or more formally it is
called heart-brain coherence.
When you can create a 0.1
Hertz signal between the heart
and the brain, when you
can create the feelings
in your heart that
send 0.1 Hertz
between your heart
and your brain,
that's where the action is.
That's what's
happening right there.
Why would you want to do that?
All kinds of reasons.
All kinds of reasons
why you-- and I'm just
going to give you a couple
of pages of them right now,
just a handful.
Super longevity.
When you harmonize the
heart and the brain,
you enable the enzymes
in the cells of your body
that are designed to stop
the damage to the DNA,
to heal the damage
that's already occurred,
and to rebuild the
caps, the telomeres.
You awaken those-- no?
No, it's true.
No, absolutely.
So that is just from--
without doing any more
beyond harmonizing
the heart and the brain,
one of the reasons
is because it relieves
the stress that
prevents that system
from becoming enabled.
Super immune response,
direct access
to deep heart intelligence,
deep intuition,
those 1,300 positive biochemical
reactions, super resilient.
So we're going to
talk about this.
We're going to have some
resilience, some experiences
in here, deep intuition,
super intuition,
access the subconscious.
Anybody in here do affirmations?
If you do an affirmation,
for it to be effective,
it must communicate
with your subconscious--
here's the key-- in a language
your subconscious recognizes.
It must be the language your
subconscious recognizes.
When you harmonize the
heart and the brain,
it's a hotline to the
subconscious without hypnosis.
Super learning, super
memory, super cognition,
we're going to talk
about mirror neurons,
super heart rate
variability, and more
just from harmonizing
the heart and the brain.
So I wanted you to see what a
powerful, powerful system this
can be.
Now, if you never
use it, that's fine.
But if you choose to use it,
we have access to something
that literally,
literally empowers us
in what some people
call a superhuman way.
So heart-brain
harmony-- when you
harmonize the heart and brain,
that's just the beginning.
That's not the end.
A lot of people, they
do this and say, OK, I
did my heart-brain harmony.
That's cool.
It can do some things.
But it also opens the door
to so, so, so much more.
It's only the beginning.
Now you all know
everything in the body--
how am I doing on
time, by the way?
I have no idea.
OK, I'm going to start
talking really fast.
Heart-brain coherence.
It synchronizes the
systems of the body.
You know that
everything is connected.
But you may not
know how connected.
You all know Dr. Bruce Lipton,
my dear friend, colleague.
I was presenting
with him recently.
And I shared this slide.
And he said-- his
eyes get really big.
I love it when Bruce-- he
goes, I want that slide.
This is-- it was 2018, they
published the most recent map
of the metabolic pathways
of the human body.
And I'm going to share that map.
And if you can't read it,
don't worry because neither
can anyone else.
It is so complex.
This is how connected
everything in your body is.
And you can see it's
important in just a minute.
Here's-- are you ready?
OK here's the map right here.
Look at this.
Isn't that awesome?
This is the reason when a
pharmaceutical company tells
you on the label
of a prescription
that there are side effects,
there are no side effects
because everything is connected.
It's impossible-- for
example, you cannot take
an antihistamine and expect
its effects to be limited only
to one part of the system
because everything else is
connected.
So if you're taking
an antihistamine,
it may make you drowsy.
Don't operate heavy machinery
or drive while you're doing it.
It may make it hard to
pee for some people.
It may make you nauseous.
All those because everything
is interconnected.
But this is the
really good news.
This is really good news.
Because everything
is so interconnected,
when you harmonize your
heart and your brain,
guess what else gets harmonized.
Every organ, every gland,
all the systems in your body.
So it is not limited to
the heart and the brain.
And that's why I wanted
to show you this.
That make sense?
You good with that?
Yes, no?
>> Yes.
>> All right, audience
participation.
Thank you.
So I want to share with
you how this happens.
And I'm going to
show you something.
You all have seen metronomes
used for illustrations.
You've been with my brother Dr.
Joe or any people like that.
I'm going to show
you another one.
And the only reason is
because I can show you
something different than
what they're showing.
I'm going to show a
series of metronomes.
They're right here.
But they are mounted
on this board.
And that board is
setting on a rigid table.
The table doesn't move.
What that means is
kinetic energy--
these metro gnomes
are limited in motion
because they are bolted to this
and they are on a fixed table,
all right?
So if they are
moving long enough,
eventually they will
probably come into sync.
It takes a while
because the system
is limited by its environment.
That's what happens when
we are not operating
in the heart-brain coherence.
We are limited--
we're at the mercy
of our external environment
because we've not harmonized
our inner environment.
However, this gentleman
is going to do
something very interesting.
He's going to take this
board with the metronomes
and lift it from the
rigidity of the table
and set it on top of rollers.
It happens to be a couple
of empty Coke cans.
He was just being resourceful.
And once it's on those
rollers, the system
is freed from the limitation
of a fixed environment.
It now can move
relative to itself.
And watch how quickly it
comes into synchronization.
And then once it's in sync, he
will take it off the rollers,
put it back on the table,
and look how quickly
it loses its synchronization.
That's the
equivalent-- when it's
on those rollers, that's the
equivalent of you harmonizing
the heart and the brain.
When he takes it
off the rollers,
that's when we're
going through our day
and we may feel a
little out of sync.
And that's exactly
what's happening.
Does it makes sense what I
just described, first of all?
OK, I'm going to turn
up the audio here.
I think I should
have audio on this.
Let's see.
[CLICKING]
Now, watch how quickly
these come into sync
because they're--
see how they're moving
relative to the fixed surface.
Now watch what happens.
He's going to let those
run for a few seconds.
And he's going to take
it off of the rollers
and put it back on the table
and watch how quickly they
lose their sync.
[CLICKING]
So they are totally
in sync right now.
And he's going to do a
little time lapse here.
And now he's going to take
it off of the rollers.
Watch what happens.
And look how quickly it happens.
So you see what's happening.
When we are not in that
heart-brain harmony,
we are subject to the external
environment and all the things
that pull us out of our
heart, that pull us out
of being objective sometimes.
When we find that
heart-brain harmony,
when we can create that, and
it's very, very easy to do--
and I'm going to go back
to the other program now.
It gives you an edge.
It gives you the ability to
be more objective, to be--
let's see.
I'll make sure I
got the right one.
OK.
I want to see if this next--
yeah.
And it also does what you're
going to see right here.
You saw this the other
day, some of you.
Some of you have not.
These are human neurons,
a living human brain.
These are random firings.
This is typically-- this is
probably what's happening right
now--
our brain, your brain, my brain.
These are random thoughts
inside of a living human brain.
This is-- Japanese cameras now
can actually document this.
It's pretty wild.
Japanese cameras being used
in American universities.
I like that.
What would happen if we could
harmonize all of those neurons
to fire at the same time and
then take that and apply it
to our own healing or
to our own intuition,
to access deep states of
awareness or consciousness?
What would that do?
Well, this is what happens
when we're in no coherence.
This is-- I love this.
This also is Japanese
cameras in a Russian research
facility being used in
American universities.
True international cooperation.
Look at this, what's happening.
You're going to see
over 95% of the neurons
in the front of this brain are
going to fire simultaneously.
That is the
equivalent of those--
right there.
Look at that.
That's the equivalent
of those metronomes
coming into synchronization.
And you and I are
given the ability
to do that through the power
of coordinating, harmonizing,
creating coherence.
There it is right there
again, one more time.
So that's what we're
going to do right now.
I love this.
How do we do it?
Here it is-- this is a new
technology called glass brain
technology.
And this is actually
a human brain
showing how different
portions of the brain
harmonize at different times.
So right there, you're
seeing in the back,
there's certain portions of
the brain that are harmonizing.
How do we do it?
There are three steps.
I'm going to--
I'm going to lead you
right through them.
Shift the focus.
Shift the breath.
And we're going to
shift the way you feel.
I got a bright light here.
Quick question?
Quick relevant burning question.
>> [INAUDIBLE] what causes
the difference [INAUDIBLE]??
>> Because it is
no longer bound.
It's not bound to
a rigid surface.
It's allowed to move freely.
It's moving freely.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah.
So when we are able to harmonize
our heart and our brain,
we are not bound by our
external environment any longer.
And that's the power of
what we're doing right here.
So I want to do this.
I want to do this.
Laurie, how much time do I have?
Do I have an hour?
Because I got so much I
want to share with you.
>> You have an hour
and seven minutes.
>> You know, when I
was a kid, I actually--
I may have contributed
to my parents' divorce.
I don't know, because every time
they would have friends over,
I would drag all of my science
stuff out of my bedroom
laboratory into the living room.
And I would show them all my
collections of all my rocks
and all my fossils
and all my seashells
and all my butterflies.
And then I would
begin the experiments
that sometimes
would lead to fire
and sparks in very
inappropriate places and times.
So I don't think that was
the reason they divorced.
But it probably didn't help.
So I'm like that
when I come here.
I want to show you everything.
I've got so much we want to do.
But this is important
because it's all
going to hinge on what
we're doing right here.
So what I'd like to do is,
can we bring our lights down
a little bit?
We covered a lot of ground.
I talked to you about why
the world is changing,
our relationship to
that change, the fact
that we are literally wired
to thrive in that change
if we embrace our humanness.
And we're only beginning
to understand really
what that means
through what we are now
calling soft technology.
Every cell in your body--
I want you to think about this.
Every cell in your body is like
a little electrical circuit.
And it does everything
the circuit does.
You store energy.
You release energy.
You receive light as photons.
You emit light as photons.
You access memory.
You have the ability
to share that memory,
to store that memory.
You create very harmonized
systems just the way
our machines are
doing right now.
And you regulate all of that
through your relationship
between your heart
and your brain.
Sometimes you do
it unconsciously,
and you don't know
how you're regulating.
To become fully human,
to gain our mastery,
this is what the mystics and
the yogis and the healers
and the curanderos and the
monks and the nuns in Tibet--
this is what they've dedicate
their lives to master.
Thank you for your
help with that.
Is how do we access
and harmonize
this internal
technology to become
the best people we can be?
What does it really mean to
even be human, to be fully human
and not be at the whim
of our external world,
our external environment,
to be our own master,
to have control of
our own biology?
And all of those things
I've said to you,
they all begin with
how we apply breath,
how we access this relationship
between the heart and the brain
and our uniquely human
ability to create emotion
on demand when we feel
like having that emotion.
One more discovery.
What's that woman
doing right there?
>> Yawning.
>> Yep.
And when you see somebody yawn,
a lot of times what happens?
I do this from the
stage all-- we come back
from lunch and everybody goes
out and has beer, wine, pasta,
pizza.
And then they come back into
a warm room for the afternoon.
And I see a lot of that.
And then I see people
next to them doing that.
And sometimes it's not
just the people that do it.
But you know, if you share
your life with any other forms
of life, they often will--
they'll do exactly
the same thing.
I-- up until July of last year,
I shared my life with a little
16--
well, he was a
13-pound kitty that
lived with me 16 years,
my wife and I, that
slept right here on my chest.
Sometime after I would go
to sleep, he would come up.
And he'd be right there.
And I'd wake up in the morning,
and his face is right there.
And either way, I'd mess
with him in the morning.
I'd open one eye,
and he opens one eye.
And I'd open the other one,
and he opens the other one.
And I'd open my mouth, and
he'd show me all of his teeth.
You know, we have
this relationship.
We all know that it happens.
The question is,
why does it happen?
And this is one of
the greatest mysteries
and one of the deepest powers
that you have as a human.
When this happens, it is
because of a phenomenon
that is called mirror neurons, a
relatively new class of neurons
that were only
discovered in 2004.
Guess where they're located.
Just take a wild Conscious Life
Expo psychic, intuitive guess.
Right in the neocortex that you
were given access to in the way
that you do 200,000 years ago.
Mirror neurons.
Now technically, they are
called cubelli neurons.
Let me tell you why
they're so special.
A mirror neuron fires when
you have an experience.
So you're out playing
soccer or you're
out playing golf or having
wild, passionate sex or playing
great rock music
or whatever it is.
Those mirror neurons are firing.
No big deal.
No surprise there.
But look at this.
They also fire when you
witness someone else
having an experience.
This is why you could be
lying motionless on your couch
on a Sunday afternoon
watching the soccer game.
You're lying down.
Your heart's beating fast.
Your muscles are tense.
You might be perspiring.
But you're just-- I
mean, think about it.
You're just lying there.
This is why porn is so
powerfully addictive
and why so many people have
problems because their body--
your brain doesn't
know the difference
between watching soccer
and playing soccer,
between watching porn
and being in the porn.
You're firing off all of those
very addictive chemicals--
the serotonin, the oxytocin,
the adrenaline all--
and they're very
addictive chemicals.
Your brain for all
intents and purposes
does not know the
difference between watching
and having the experience.
This is a really very,
very powerful, powerful
biological process.
Elon Musk is developing computer
chips to put in the human brain
to mimic what you already
have the ability to do.
I talked about this on Friday.
And this is the danger.
The danger is when we begin to
replace our natural abilities
with devices and machines, those
abilities begin to atrophy.
And you don't want to lose this.
I'm going to talk
to you about this.
Where are they located?
I just gave the answer.
Here it is right here.
The mirror neurons right
now, the only ones we know,
this is where they're
located right here.
All in the neocortex.
Everything OK?
You guys good?
OK, everybody's
checking stuff out.
I just want to make sure that
I'm not doing something I'm not
supposed to be doing here.
It's my guilt complex.
It's my performer.
OK.
So how powerful are these?
I'm going to give you
a couple of examples.
This is a person
actually having pain.
And this is the part of
the brain right there--
these are the pain centers.
If you are a
therapist or a healer
or a doctor or a massage
therapist or a body worker,
you all know that you
empathize with your clients.
When you're empathizing,
look what happened.
There's a person empathizing.
Look at their-- not 100%,
but they're feeling--
they're literally
feeling the pain.
They're not just
sympathizing, saying,
oh, you know, I really
feel for you, brother.
They're not doing
that-- or sister.
They're saying, I feel the pain.
And it's true.
They are.
Look at this.
I love-- this is a musician.
This is a musician.
Left and the right
side of the brain,
trained in music, loves music,
loves to perform the music.
Look at the parts of
the brain lighting up.
The next image is
someone that does not
know how to play an instrument,
is not trained to perform
but loves music anyway.
And look at this.
Look at the part--
just a listener.
Look at the parts-- look
at-- that is 100% identical
right there.
Look at that right there.
Right there.
It's the same parts of the brain
right there and right there.
These are mirror neurons.
This is what they do.
Now I'm sharing with
you the science.
And I promised that
I would tell you
when I deviate from
the accepted science.
And I'm about to
do that right now.
I believe from studying ancient
text this is one of our most
underutilized potentials.
So what I'm going to
share with you now
many neuroscientists probably
would not agree with me
yet on the one hand.
Other hand, they don't know
what the mirror neurons are for.
I believe this is unlocking--
the key to unlocking
some of our greatest potential.
And I'm going to show you Elon
Musk is actually creating--
I mentioned this
and I talked to you
about this-- this
chip right here.
It's the first chip-- it's
now being manufactured
to be implanted in the
human brain that interfaces
with the brain so
the brain can talk
to the hard drive of a computer.
That's not a wire.
It's like Bluetooth technology.
And young people love this, man.
Gamers love this.
They're saying, oh sweet.
I can play Grand Theft
Auto Number Three
without having to use my cables.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah.
But here's the thing.
When we begin to replace our
natural abilities with chips,
we begin to atrophy
those abilities.
And I talked about
that on Friday.
I'm not going to talk
about it anymore now.
But what I want to
say is we already
have-- we are the technology.
And I think all-- remember
what I said earlier.
Our creations are reminding us
of something within ourselves.
And I believe that's
happening here.
We're building
devices and machines
that mimic what we
already are to remind us
of what we already are.
The question is, will we
embrace our humanness,
or are we going to give
our power away forever?
Once it's gone, it's gone.
I believe this is what the
masters did in the past.
When I-- my first
trip into Tibet,
I chose an overland route
to go to the monasteries
that we were going to
because I've studied
martial arts since I was a kid.
And I'm fascinated by not
only the coordination,
but the inner
expression of what's
happening with the body
in the outer world.
And one of the great
masters was living
in a cave in the highlands
of Central Tibet.
His name was-- anybody
know who it was?
Milarepa.
Anybody study Milarepa?
>> Love it.
>> Yeah.
So and I wanted to see
the place where Milarepa
had had his experience.
If you know the
story-- if you don't
know the story of Milarepa, it's
very similar in some respects
to the story of Buddha.
Both Buddha and Milarepa came
from privileged families.
They were sheltered from a
lot of the evils in the world.
They were families of privilege.
Buddha went into the world
and it changed his life.
Milarepa went to another
village as a student
studying the mystical arts.
And when he returned
to his village,
another army had come and
burned his village to the ground
and killed all of his family.
And he was enraged.
And he sought revenge.
And he tracked down that army.
And when they were not expecting
it, he burned their camp.
And he killed many,
many, many people.
And he immediately
knew that it was
a misuse of his power, of
what he had been taught to do.
And he retreated.
He renounced all of his
worldly possessions,
all of his friendships.
He retreated to a series of
caves that still exist today
and spent the rest of his life.
He said, I will only use my
mystical powers for good.
And I will teach any students
that want to come to me.
I will not go to them.
And it's in this place
that he performed miracles.
And I wanted to
see the miracles.
And some of the
miracles remain today.
What Milarepa would
do is when he wanted
to help free one of his
students from the limitations--
their perceived limitations,
he would walk over
to the wall of the
cave, the rock wall.
And he'd put his hand
against the wall.
And he would just
continue to push
as if that rock didn't exist.
And it's not a one
or two-time deal.
I mean, all over the
inside of this cave.
And he did it with
his feet as well.
There are-- some
of the impressions
are, like, this deep.
Some of them-- there's one
that goes all the way up
to my elbow.
In his mastery, the
wall of the cave
was no longer a limit
to his existence.
He says, I'm not limited
by the walls of this stone.
And when you see something like
that happen, one of two things
occurs within you.
You either blow it off and you
discount it because you cannot
accept what you've seen--
in this case, you
would no longer
be a student of Milarepa--
or you change your
belief system to embrace
what you have just seen.
And now your belief
system is expanded
to allow for that
possibility for you as well.
So the-- Jesus did
this all the time.
All the time.
This is what the healings were--
not to impress people,
but to show them
that there was a
power within them
that exceeded what
they had been--
what they were told were their
limitations, their perceived
limitations.
So when we see something
like this happen,
that is precisely
what's going on.
But it's not limited
to the ancient masters.
It's not limited to the
miracles of another time,
although it can be.
That's exactly-- your brain--
now, I want you to
think about this.
Your brain doesn't
know the difference
between witnessing an experience
and living the experience.
Are you with me on that?
All right, where does
the witnessing occur?
Your brain doesn't know the
difference between witnessing
and imagining the experience.
If you can see it in your mind's
eye and feel it in your heart,
your brain doesn't know
the difference between that
and you watching that
experience outside of your body.
I'm going to show you.
Look at this.
These are scans of
the brain right here.
That's the top of the
brain, the back, sides.
This is the brain
where someone actually
is reaching with their
arm across the table.
Look at the parts of the
brain that are lighting up.
You all can see that.
The next scan is
now someone is--
they're doing the reaching.
Here is where they're watching
someone else do the reaching.
They're not reaching.
And look at the parts of the
brain that are lighting up.
Can you all see that?
OK, here's where it
gets really cool.
The next scan is they're
not doing the reaching.
They're not watching
someone else.
They are imagining themselves
doing the reaching.
Look at that.
Your brain-- it's not 100%.
But look how much it is.
Your brain doesn't
know the difference.
The question is, what do you
feed your mirror neurons?
What do you feed
your mirror neurons?
When you think about yourself
consciously and subconsciously,
how do you see yourself?
And whatever the
answer to that is,
you are giving that
information to the mirror
neurons to produce the chemistry
in the body that matches
what it is that you're seeing.
Would you like the opportunity
to update what you're
feeding your mirror neurons?
Yeah, good because we're
going to before our afternoon
is over here.
Your mirror neurons are
responding to your self image.
And that's the question.
And I ask myself this
question all the time.
What am I feeding
my mirror neurons?
I-- and many of you know.
I talked a little
bit about this.
I'm the product of a
very dysfunctional,
alcoholic family--
abusive alcoholic family.
If you ever been in
a family like that,
you are steeped in criticism
that lends to self-doubt.
No, you know what I'm saying.
You're steeped in that--
the question is,
do you accept that?
Do you believe what
you're being told?
And if you're a young person--
I was blessed with a
really strong soul compass.
I did not believe a
lot of my criticism.
I have a younger brother,
four years younger.
And God bless him, he
believed everything.
And it is the governing
factor in his life today
for his relationships,
the kind of jobs
he feels that he's worthy of
pursuing, the kind of people
that he feels that
he's worthy of being
in the presence of,
the kind of women
that he draws into his
life as life partners.
It all plays-- and
I've talked to him.
And you can talk to
someone intellectually.
But unless you're willing to
really embrace this deep truth,
it's like water
rolling off a duck.
It's not going to
make any difference.
So what do you feed
your mirror neurons?
Well, I want to talk to you
about this a little bit.
I'm going to call this
physics for the advanced soul
because you're all
advanced souls.
And we all like physics.
It's going to go really fast.
>> [INAUDIBLE] men and women?
>> Pardon me?
>> Is there a difference
between men and women.
>> There's a big difference
Which one do you
want to talk about?
[LAUGHTER]
I'm sorry.
I don't even know where
that question came from.
Where are you?
Yes.
>> Mirror neurons.
>> When it comes to
mirror neurons, no.
Physiologically were the same.
It's the filters and the
perceptions of our maleness
or femaleness that
interpret what's happening
or that allow us to feed
those mirror neurons.
But the neurons are the same.
Neurons are the same.
So your woman-ness would
maybe feed your mirror neurons
in a different way than my
man-ness would, or maybe
my feminine is going
to match your feminine.
I don't know.
Whole workshop that we
could do around that.
What we now know,
scientists are no longer
arguing over whether or
not there's a field that
connects all things.
We know that that's true.
There's a field that
connects all things.
I'm not going to
spend much time.
Other speakers have done
a beautiful job with that.
Here's where this gets
interesting is this field--
it's not a field that--
and scientists do this
all the time.
There's a field that
connects all things.
There's this field out there
that connects all things.
Guess where the field is.
Every atom of your body
is emerging and collapsing
into that field in this
nanosecond right now and again
and again and again.
We-- it's not that
the field is in here.
We are the field.
You and I are wrinkles.
We are little distortions in
an otherwise homogeneous field.
And our consciousness
is what holds
this distorted form called
the human body in that field.
That means we're
part of everything.
And that means
because those atoms
and the subatomic
particles are constantly
emerging and collapsing,
they're not constant,
it means that they
are malleable.
They follow whatever template,
whatever pattern is there
when they emerge.
When that pattern changes, they
emerge as a new expression.
That's why you can change.
That's where your
healing comes from.
That's where miracles occur.
That is the awesome good
news of our soft technology,
this awesome biological
technology that rarely
does anyone tell us about.
That's why you are a master
and not a victim unless you
choose to be a victim.
So all potentials exist.
I'm just going to do
this very, very fast.
I was actually-- this is great.
I was on a plane going
to Cancun two weeks ago.
And everybody on the
plane was wearing
tie-dyed shirts, top hats, and
having a really great time.
And I felt like I
must be involved
in something I'm not aware of.
And they said, yep, it's
a Grateful Dead reunion
conference that's going
on on the beach at Cancun.
We're all deadheads.
And I said, well, to
the guy next to me
in a canary yellow suit
with canary yellow shoes
and a canary yellow top
hat and a big beard that
looked like the Wizard, I
said, that explains a lot.
I wish we had had these when
I went to the Dead shows.
These are awesome.
If you think-- OK, look at
what's happening right now.
If this is the
quantum field and you
can see a pattern
of energy, what
is happening to that
pattern right there?
You tell me what's happening.
Is it emerging, or is it
coming outward or going inward?
It's collapsing.
What is that patt-?
This is where I'd like
to have the Dead concert.
Man, that was just like, whoa.
That's different.
I'm close to it.
But can you see
what's happening?
OK, this is-- the quantum
field is in constant motion
of potential.
Potential.
Everything you can
imagine is in-- it's
in motion as a
potential in this field.
Your perfect relationship--
you say, oh, there's
my perfect relationship.
It's right there in the field.
I can see-- oh, there it goes.
It's going.
My perfect job.
My perfect company.
Oh yeah, well, where did it go?
Because they're in motion.
They're in constant motion.
Can you see this
pattern right here?
Does it look different
than these two?
What's it doing?
Is it collapsing?
It's emerging?
It's pulsing in place.
When this energy is no longer
collapsing or expanding,
when it's pulsing in place,
you call that an atom.
This is the atom of
your physical reality.
This is potential.
When you reach in to this
field with your imagination,
with your vision, and
you see that potential--
all right, now you've got it.
How do you collapse
it into this world?
You collapse it by feeding
it your love or your fear
for what you are imagining.
So here it is.
You're looking at all of the
relationships, all the jobs,
all the health, all the
healing, all the careers.
And if your love or your fear--
these are anchors that
will stop the motion.
And it becomes a pulsing field
of energy in our 3D world.
That is the atom.
So here's how you
can think of this.
You can use different languages.
If you're a scientist,
these are scalar waves.
That becomes a vector
wave, the real thing.
Or if you're not a scientist,
you say this is a wish.
These are possibilities.
And this is an empowered
wish or a prayer.
Does that make sense?
Big concept.
So the question is when you are
creating using affirmations,
for example.
There's a huge difference
between working
toward the outcome and
beginning with what you want.
We were taught-- when I
was a kid, my mom told me--
how much time do I have?
>> You have twenty-four minutes.
>> All right.
If I go-- if--
do we have a hard out?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> If I go over four minutes?
Can I go over four minutes?
I may not need to.
OK, so when I was a kid
here is what my mom told me.
She says, if you scrape
your knee on the sidewalk,
it's not going to
heal immediately.
And guess what.
It didn't.
She said it will heal
little by little.
It'll heal a little
bit tomorrow.
And it'll heal a little bit more
the next day, a little bit more
the next day, a little bit--
and I began to
believe that as a kid.
And sure enough, my body--
that's exactly the way it
worked.
When I began to understand
that things work differently--
I'm not saying it's
instantaneously.
But I'm saying you can
really change that paradigm.
I think some of you
are nodding your heads.
You guys know that.
What do we feed that field?
Now there is a movement.
And my publisher, Hay House--
I've been with them
since, oh, well--
my first book with them, I met--
they asked me to come
on board in 1998.
And my first book
with them was in 2003.
So I've been with
them quite a while.
Hay House has done
a lot of books
and these little decks
of affirmation cards.
You all seen those?
They can be powerful if they
are stated in the right way.
Now this is a little
tricky for me.
I actually-- I've taken
examples from my friends
and my fellow authors.
And I've crossed the names out.
So I'm not picking on anybody.
But I want to show you something
about how these affirmations
work so that when we
do this on our own
here in just a few moments
that you are optimizing
this potential, this language.
You're creating a system
that is open to information;
this powerful, sophisticated,
advanced soft technology;
harmonizing the
heart and the brain;
using the mirror
neurons to create
real change in your body.
That is a powerful technology
without any external machines
doing that for you.
So let's just-- and
this is kind of fun.
Let's just take a look
at a couple of these.
I want you to look at this.
Here's an-- this is
a great affirmation.
Look at what it says.
I am open and ready to attract
abundance into my life.
Well, who doesn't
want abundance?
Know what, that would be a
great affirmation, right?
Don't tell me, but does
anybody see a problem with it?
>> Yes.
>> All right, look at this one.
I love this one.
I am ready to enjoy
perfect health.
Oh, don't-- the Hay House author
that wrote that, if she knew,
or he--
if he or she knew what
I was doing right now.
Look.
This one is a little
bit harder to read.
I'll read it for you.
I am willing to release old
patterns and negative beliefs.
OK, so let me tell
you how this works.
The universe is very literal.
Very literal.
I'm going to channel
the universe just
for a couple of seconds here.
So I'm the universe.
And I just received
your affirmation.
Let's see.
I'm ready-- I'm open and
ready to attract abundance
into my life.
So I'm the universe.
And here you are.
You're affirming
that you're ready.
And so here's what I'm saying.
I'm saying, I'm really
happy, earth child,
that you are open and
ready to attract abundance
into your life.
And because I am the
infinite universe,
I will allow precisely what
it is that you've commanded.
I will allow you to
be open and ready
and open and ready and open
and ready and open and ready.
I will-- I am ready
to enjoy perfect--
I'm so happy, my
earth child, that you
are ready to enjoy perfect
health and ready and ready
and--
and when you want that,
when you get around
to letting me know when
you want it, you know,
just give me a little clue.
What's missing?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> There's no outcome.
There's no outcome.
These are well-intentioned.
And I'm not making fun
of these people at all.
But I'm saying, if
you're going to do this,
it depends on what it is that
you're saying to your body
and what it is
that you're saying
because when you use
these words and the words
conjure images in your
heart or your mind,
because your heart can
see as well-- remember,
you've got neurons in the
heart, neurons in the mind.
That's a fast afternoon.
Those mirror neurons
are going to trigger
the chemistry in your
body for whatever it
is that you are creating.
And if you're creating this--
I'm ready to enjoy--
I know people who have
been really sick, cancer,
and they're relying on new
thought, new age modalities
which can be
effective if they are
used correctly and properly.
I have friends that are
no longer in this world.
They died.
They said, I'm going to
go the holistic route.
I said, that's cool.
But they never followed through
with the solid principles
of what holism means.
And they died learning.
So if you're going to follow
these kinds of things,
and I'm not saying don't.
I'm saying let's give
our body-- your body
is so amazingly intelligent.
It wants to heal.
It has everything
it-- your body is
more in healing modality
than it's not until something
gets in the way.
How many of you
heard we begin to die
from the moment we're born?
You ever heard that?
I was told that.
You know what?
That is complete crap.
Here is the truth.
Here's the truth.
The truth is you begin to
heal even before you're born.
You begin healing in
your mother's womb.
And your body is
programmed to heal.
And you continue to heal.
From the moment that you
emerge, the cells in your body
are in a healing modality until
something compromises them.
And our job is to
get out of the way
and allow our bodies do what
it is that they know how to do.
So you tell me.
This is a trick question,
I'll tell you right now.
What would be a more
positive way to say this?
I'm asking because
I'm going to invite
us to go into this space of
heart-brain coherence and use
mirror neurons and create
something for ourselves.
And this principle
will be important.
Just-- you can
just shout it out.
What would be-- what--
[CHATTER]
OK.
>> I have perfect health.
>> All of those
could be effective.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> OK, you're close.
All of those can be effective.
But think about
the slide about two
slides back where
in a linear world
you work toward the outcome.
In a quantum world, you
begin with the outcome.
If that's true, you would say
thank you for the perfect--
for the health--
the perfect health
that already exists.
Can you see that difference?
And I know people that--
one step removed, people
that say-- in meditation,
they say, I give
thanks for my perfect health.
That can be good.
But look at what you're doing.
I give thanks for
my perfect health.
OK, say that.
I give thanks for
my perfect health.
>> I give thanks for
>> Now, thank you for my health.
Thank you for my perfect--
you see that difference?
Direct, personal thank you.
It's a powerful, powerful sense.
When you say I give thanks,
that's-- it's very proper.
That's very cool.
The universe says, oh,
I'm very happy that you're
giving thanks.
Yeah.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> There is no incorrect way.
I'm sharing with you principles.
And I'm inviting you to embrace
those principles in your life.
And what I just said to
you, when you directly say
thank you.
Thank you to your body.
You know, you think you're an
individual, and you're not.
You're actually a community
of about 50 trillion cells
that's all working together.
I've got this community
that's called Gregg.
And I thank Gregg every day.
I went the other day
after my keynote.
And I went up to my room.
And I said, thank you, Gregg.
Thank you for working with
me to honor the people that
came to be in the room.
Thank you.
It's very, very powerful.
Very-- it's very direct, OK?
So what I'd like to do--
Laurie, my timekeeper,
what I have
like 15 minutes, 20 minutes?
>> You have 15 minutes.
>> All right.
See?
I took that name
out right there.
So the key is this.
If you're going to
have an affirmation,
you want to feel as if
the outcome is already
present, feel as if your
prayer's already answered,
your body's already healed, the
relationship is already there,
your abundance is
already present.
And you invoke all of
the senses that you can.
It's not just a
mental experience.
That must be a good picture.
Everybody's got
their cameras up.
I'm going to get out of the way.
So now I'm going to
give you a formula.
And then we're going to put
all this together brilliantly,
transparently, expertly.
And we'll have a great
experience in here.
Does it make sense
what we've said so far?
You all good with this?
I know it's fast.
It's very high level.
Two and a half hours
seems like a long time,
but it actually goes by--
didn't our day go
by pretty quickly?
It's not done yet.
Here's the formula.
And you say, if the mirror
neurons are so powerful,
how come they don't kick
in for me all of the time?
This is the answer.
Because you are creating the
environment within your body
to optimize this
internal technology.
And here's how we do it.
The first thing we're going
to do-- be very familiar.
We're going to create
heart-brain coherence.
And from that
heart-brain coherence,
I'm going to invite you--
I'll lead you through a process.
And I'm going to invite you,
because your brain doesn't
know the difference between
visualizing and having
the experience.
And the key is once you
have that to bring it
into your world, to
breathe life through what
is called elevated emotion.
Our ancestors knew this.
Elevated emotion.
What are the keys?
You evoke the senses,
movement, feeling.
The keys to elevated emotion--
every ancient temple that
I've studied has one of these.
Look what-- what's that
woman doing right there?
>> Drumming.
>> Yep.
What's that woman
doing right there?
>> Drumming.
>> And have you noticed
they're feminine?
What's this woman
doing right here?
>> drumming.
>> What's that woman
doing right there?
>> Drumming.
>> And look at all these women.
Typically the feminine
energy is drumming,
drumming to create
the elevated emotion
for whatever the process is.
Elevated emotion is the key
to anchoring in your being
what it is that you envision,
what you sense, what you feel,
what you hope to
bring into your life.
It's the missing link.
It's not enough to see it.
It's the invitation to come
into this world, into this life.
Could you feel a
shift in your body?
[MURMURING]
Yeah.
This was brief.
It was high level.
But it gives you a
sense of the power
of this technology that you
embody by walking this earth.
And as we go through this
shift, this change, and people
around us that do not
understand what you understand,
in their fear, try to share
that fear with others.
I'm going to invite you to
come back to these moments
and to recall the gift
that you were given
200,000 years ago for just
this time that allows you not
to survive, but to transcend.
And it's as simple
as being human.
The key is to embrace
what it means to be human.
And we're all students.
We're only beginning
to understand.
And that's what I wanted
to say to you today.
Thank you for spending two
and a half hours of your life
with me.
I love you all.
Thank you all so
much for being here.
[APPLAUSE]
Yeah, thank you.
Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]